doc: thingy53: remove GSG guide (#19828)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/app_dev/device_guides/thingy53/building_thingy53.rst

For the compatible Wi-Fi samples in the |NCS|, see the :ref:`wifi_samples` section.

.. _thingy53_app_update:

Programming methods for Thingy:53
*********************************

> You can program the firmware on the Nordic Thingy:53 using an external debug probe and 10-pin JTAG cable, using :ref:`Visual Studio Code <thingy53_build_pgm_vscode>`, :ref:`command line <thingy53_build_pgm_command_line>`, :ref:`command line <thingy53_build_pgm_command_line>`, or the `Programmer app <Programming Nordic Thingy:53_>`_ from nRF Connect for Desktop.
> You can also program applications running on both the network and application core using the built-in MCUboot serial recovery mode, using the `Programmer app`_ from nRF Connect for Desktop or `nRF Util <Programming application firmware using MCUboot serial recovery_>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can program the firmware on the Nordic Thingy:53 using an external debug probe and 10-pin JTAG cable, using :ref:`Visual Studio Code <thingy53_build_pgm_vscode>`, :ref:`command line <thingy53_build_pgm_command_line>`, or the `Programmer app <Programming Nordic Thingy:53_>`_ from nRF Connect for Desktop.
You can also program applications running on both the network and application core using the built-in MCUboot serial recovery mode, using the `Programmer app`_ from nRF Connect for Desktop or `nRF Util <Programming application firmware using MCUboot serial recovery_>`_.
```

Finally, you can use the `Programmer app`_ from nRF Connect for Desktop, the `nRF Programmer`_ mobile app for Android and iOS, or nRF Util to update the :ref:`preloaded application images <thingy53_precompiled>`.

.. _thingy53_app_update_debug:

Firmware update using external debug probe
==========================================

You can program the firmware on the Nordic Thingy:53 using an external debug probe and 10-pin JTAG cable.

> In such cases, you can program the Thingy:53 the same way as nRF5340 DK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In such cases, you can program the Thingy:53 the same way as the nRF5340 DK.
```

The external debug probe must support Arm Cortex-M33 (such as the nRF5340 DK).

> You need a 10-pin 2x5 socket-socket 1.27 mm IDC (:term:`Serial Wire Debug (SWD)`) JTAG cable to connect to the external debug probe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need a 10-pin 2x5 socket-to-socket 1.27 mm IDC (:term:`Serial Wire Debug (SWD)`) JTAG cable to connect to the external debug probe.
```

This method is supported when programming with :ref:`Visual Studio Code <thingy53_build_pgm_vscode>`, :ref:`command line <thingy53_build_pgm_command_line>`, or the `Programmer app <Programming Nordic Thingy:53_>`_ from nRF Connect for Desktop.

See also :ref:`ug_nrf5340` for additional information.

.. _thingy53_app_update_mcuboot:

Firmware update using MCUboot bootloader
========================================

Samples and applications built for Thingy:53 include the MCUboot bootloader that you can use to update the firmware out of the box.
This method uses signed binary files :file:`app_update.bin` and :file:`net_core_app_update.bin` (or :file:`dfu_application.zip`).

> You can program the precompiled firmware image using one of the following ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can program the precompiled firmware image in one of the following ways:
```

* Use the :doc:`MCUboot<mcuboot:index-ncs>` feature and the built-in serial recovery mode of Thingy:53.
  In this scenario, the Thingy is connected directly to your PC through USB.
  For details, refer to the :ref:`thingy53_app_mcuboot_bootloader` section.

>   See `Programming Nordic Thingy:53`_ in the `Programmer app`_ for the detailed procedures on how to program the Thingy:53 using nRF Connect for Desktop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  See `Programming Nordic Thingy:53`_ in the `Programmer app`_ for the detailed procedures on how to program the Thingy:53 using nRF Connect for Desktop.
  
```

#. Program the sample or application:

   a. Connect the Nordic Thingy:53 to the debug out port on a 10-pin external debug probe, for example nRF5340 DK, using a 10-pin JTAG cable.

      .. figure:: ./images/thingy53_nrf5340_dk.svg
         :alt: Nordic Thingy:53 connected to the debug port on a 10-pin external debug probe

         Nordic Thingy:53 connected to the debug port on a 10-pin external debug probe

   #. Connect the external debug probe to the PC using a micro-USB cable.
   #. Make sure that the Nordic Thingy:53 and the external debug probe are powered on.
      (On the Thingy:53, move the power switch **SW1** to the **ON** position.)
   #. Use the following command to program the sample or application to the device:

      .. code-block:: console

         west flash

   The device resets and runs the programmed sample or application.

.. _thingy53_gs_updating_usb:
.. _thingy53_gs_updating_external_probe:

Programming using the Programmer app
************************************

You can program the Nordic Thingy:53 using the `Programmer app`_ from nRF Connect for Desktop and MCUboot's serial recovery feature.

> This application can also be used to program precompiled firmware packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use this application also to program precompiled firmware packages.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also use this application to program precompiled firmware packages.
```
or
```suggestion
You can use this application to also program precompiled firmware packages.
```

> You can program the Thingy:53 using the Programmer app using either USB-C or an external debug probe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can program the Thingy:53 using the Programmer app with either USB-C or an external debug probe.
```

See the `Programming Nordic Thingy:53`_ in the tool documentation for detailed steps.

Programming using nRF Util
**************************

> You can use the nRF Util utility to program Thingy:53, including programming precompiled firmware packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the nRF Util tool to program Thingy:53, including programming precompiled firmware packages.
```
